Hi guys, just a quick video to show you
how to cache functions.
Here's a little problem with our convert function.
Imagine that this convert function is getting called
all over our application, but many different parts of it,
and it's converting a lot of different currencies
all the time.
Imagine we have some sort of application
that does currency conversion for our users.
You'll know by reading the documentation
that this self.latest only changes once an hour.
So if you make this request a thousand times an hour,
you're actually always gonna get the same value back,
which means that making the request
and actually interacting with the server,
sending them data,
getting them to send you data back and all that,
is a bit of a waste,
just because it's never gonna change.
Now if you are on a paid plan, it does change more often,
but because we're not
and we don't really need the granularity
of changing every minute,
we can stay on the free plan and we can prevent our programme
from making this request over and over again
as we use the convert function.
So what we're gonna do is,
we're gonna first of all time the function.
So we'll say import time.
And then we're gonna say
that the start time is time.time,
and the end time is time.time,
and then we're gonna print end minus start.
What this is gonna give us here in our code is
how long it takes for this convert function to run.
So if we press app and play,
you'll see that it takes about half a second to run.
So that's quite slow.
And it's normal,
it's normal that it takes that amount of time
because it has to send data over the internet,
it has to wait for the server to process it,
it has to wait for the server
to send data back over the internet,
and then it has to do some work.
However, if we do this over and over,
for example, let's do it three times, say,
and we will actually do this three times.
So I just copy and paste it three times,
not the greatest thing to do,
but just to show you
that it always takes more or less the same amount of time.
It always takes about half a second.
So we're gonna go over to our open exchange file
and we're gonna cache this function
so that the subsequent times we use it, it's instant.
There is a built-in module in Python called functools
that we may have seen before.
And the functools module
has a functools.lru_cache.
And we can define the maxsize,
for example, to be two.
So the lru_cache means least recently used.
And the maxsize is how many elements will stay in the cache.
So maybe we should first of all explain what a cache is.
A cache is just a piece of storage
that keeps data temporarily.
And the data that it keeps is data that is used
or needs to be used so that when you wanna use it again,
or you wanna access that data again, it is very fast.
So by caching this function,
we're gonna put the arguments of the function
and the result into this temporary storage.
Whenever we use the function again with the same arguments,
it's gonna get the data from the storage
instead of running the function.
So as long as the arguments don't change,
the result will be instant.
And that is why we've put a maxsize of two,
because this has no arguments,
so it's never gonna take up more than one slot in the cache.
If you have arguments,
then you may wanna increase your maxsize
so that you can account for different permutations
of the arguments.
Let's run app.py again and you'll see how now,
the first instance takes .65 seconds,
but subsequent instance take five, essentially,
nanoseconds, I think that is a very small amount of time.
And you see that the programme did finish much quicker.
There is a small problem with this though,
which is that if we have this application running
and it runs for a very long time,
because this only ever appears in the cache once,
there are no arguments,
it will never get removed from the cache,
which means that our application will always be limited
to using the first request that it ever made to the server.
If our application runs for longer than an hour,
that means that after an hour,
this response will be outdated
because if we were to request it again,
it would've changed in the server.
What we wanna do is cache,
but only up to an hour.
And for that, we have to use a different package
that we're going to look at in the next video.
I'll see you there.